---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "azuresql Provider"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Azuresql provider
---

# azuresql Provider

This provider lets you manage the data plane of Azure SQL resources. At the moment it supports:
* Azure SQL server
* Azure SQL database
* Azure Synapse serverless pool

The provider enables passwordless authentiation through the [Azure default credential chain](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential). This enables you to manage multiple SQL resources using a single provider block.

The identitiy using this providers requires full control on the database/server to be configured. 

~> This provider at the moment does not prevent SQL injections. Be cautious when using this provider with dynamically generated input.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "azuresql" {
}


# Use data statements to load the server and database to be managed using the provider
data "azuresql_sqlserver" "server" {
  server = "mysqlserver"
  port   = 1433
}

data "azuresql_database" "database" {
  server = data.azuresql_sqlserver.server.id
  name   = "mydatabase"
}

# create a user in the database
resource "azuresql_user" "test" {
  # every resource/datasource uses the database/server argument to determine where to create the resource
  database       =data.azuresql_database.database.id
  name           = "myuser"
  authentication = "WithoutLogin"
}
```

## Argument Reference
The following arguments are supported:

- `subscription_id` (Optional, String) Id of the Azure subscription in which the Synapse or SQL servers exist. This parameter should only be specified when `check_server_exists` is true.

- `check_server_exists` (Optional, Bool) Allow the provider to check the Azure subscription to check if the Synapse or SQL server exists. This is necessary for the provider to correctly cleanup resources after a manual deletion of the server. This requires the provider to have the right to list SQL servers on the subscription. Default is false.

- `check_database_exists` (Optional, Bool) Allow the provider to check whether a database exists within a server. This is necessary for the provider to correctly cleanup resources after a manual deletion of the database. This requires the provider to have permission to execute SQL queries at the server level. Default is false.

