---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "azuresql_user Resource - terraform-provider-azuresql"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manage SQL database or server users.
---


# azuresql_user (Resource)

Manage SQL database or server users. 

**Supported**: `SQL Server`, `SQL Database`, `Synapse serverless database`, `Fabric`  

**Not supported**: `Synapse dedicated server`, `Synapse serverless server`, `Synapse dedicated database`

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "azuresql" {
}

data "azuresql_sqlserver" "server" {
  server = "mysqlserver"
}

data "azuresql_database" "database" {
  server = data.azuresql_sqlserver.server.id
  name   = "mydatabase"
}

# create a user in the database without login
resource "azuresql_user" "sqluser" {
  database       = data.azuresql_database.database.id
  name           = "myuser"
  authentication = "WithoutLogin"
}

# map an Azure AD user/group to a SQL user
resource "azuresql_user" "aduser" {
  database       = data.azuresql_database.database.id
  name           = "my-azure-ad-group"
  authentication = "AzureAD"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Argument reference
The following arguments are supported:

- `database` (Optional, String) The ID of the database in which the user should be created. 
- `server` (Optional, String) Id of the server where the user should be created.

-> Exactly one of `database` or `server` should be specified.

- `name` (Required, String) Name of the user. For AzureAD users this name must match the name in AzureAD.
- `authentication` (Required, String) The user authentication mode. Possible values are `AzureAD`, `SQLLogin` (server-wide login), `DBSQLLogin` (DB-scoped login), and `WithoutLogin`.

~> `authentication="WithoutLogin"` is not available on serverless Synapse.

- `login` (Optional, String) The ID of the `azuresql_login` resource specifying the login credentials. Available only when `authentication=SQLLogin`. 

- `password` (Optional, String) The password of the user. Available only when `authentication=DBSQLLogin`.

- `entraid_identifier` (Optional, String, **Preview**) Provision a user by providing their EntraID identifier. For Entra ID users and groups, use thier object ID; for service principals, use their application (client) ID.  This option is only available for SQL server with `authentication="AzureAD"`.

### Attributes Reference
In addition to the arguments listed above, the following read only attributes are exported:

- `id` (String) The azuresql ID of the user resource.
- `principal_id` (Number) Principal ID of the user in the database.
- `type` (String) Database/Server user type. Possible values `SQL user`, `AD group`, `AD user`. 
- `sid` (string) SID assigned to the principal in the database.
  
## ID structure

The ID is formed as `<connection>`/user/`<principal id>`, where
* `<connection>` is the azuresql ID of the database or server where the resource exists.
* `<principal_id>` is the id of the user in the database. It can be found by running `select database_principal_id('<user name>')`.

## Import

You can import a user using 

```shell
terraform import azuresql_user.<resource name> <id>
```
